Hi, we're back and we're late again, been extra busy in the last two weeks but here you'll find out why!

After his alotted three weeks of no-uni-time, we packed up Max with all our Christmas presents and shit to send back to London, packing his bag for him to fit in jars of honey, a goat skull and a llama skull etc. It proved a three-man mission but we succeeded, lessening our load though somehow we manage to accumulate Stuff like magpies so backpacks are still criminally heavy. After he left we spent a couple of days mooching about and fighting for the affections of Neblina, C's gorgeous grey cat (neblina means mist) who finally passed her very horny stage that lasted about a week of constant meowing, presumably screaming "I NEED A MAN" in cat language and getting her kicks from much arse-slapping on Gemmas part.

Despite our aversion to tourist hotspots, we did always plan to do Machu Picchu at some point (can't very well be in Peru for 6 months without doing it, that's gotta be against some international law), but accessing the continent's number one tourist attraction is about as complicated as solving Brexit so we opted to do it as part of a 5 day trek. The Salkantay trek goes from Mollepata, a bus ride away from Cusco, over the Salkantay pass past Laguna Humantay and on towards Aguas Calientes, the access point for the site. At first we were like "nooooo that looks really hard we won't be able to hack it" since exercise has taken a backseat and even walking home up the hill makes you feel like there's a llama on your chest, but we were seduced by the prospect of the views and hired two sets of walking poles for good measure. Did briefly consider the Inca Trail but it's just four days of famous stairs and honestly we hate stairs....

It was an adventure leaving cusco alone, setting off bright and early to drive into the clouds. When we started walking there was still mucha Neblina, though the clouds seemed to play hide and seek with the view giving us tantalising glimpses of the surrounding mountains. At first our group seemed rather odd, a set of misfits compared to the overtly young, fit and European second group also setting off. G, I and Ewelina the loco firecracker Polish woman comprised the only Europeans in a largely Brazilian group, though we were also joined by a stoic Chilean air force pilot (with a hidden talent for singing along to reggaeton) and the nicest most chilled out Mexican Texan dude who keeps babies alive during heart surgery. I was sceptical but it only took a day or two for our group to begin feeling like a family, led by our impossibly young and sweet guide named Cesar who had an adorable smile and his own name tatted onto his arm.

(Twas a bit weird being among the tourist population again, after hanging out with C's teacher mates who are all long term cusqueñans and feeling like a bit of a flake for only being in Cusco a month. Here, everyone was in the country for less than two weeks! What the fuck! I am so glad we got 6 months to explore this beautiful country)

The first day was a straightforward walk hugged by clouds, though I was grateful to only carry a day pack and send the rest of our stuff on horses (what luxury!) only because we learnt from camping that Altitude + Heavy Bag = Certain Death. After lunch at the camp we climbed up to Laguna Humantay, one of those brilliant blue glacial lakes that looks like it's either been photoshopped or had a gallon of chemicals emptied in. It really was that blue! The cloud curtain hesitated to shift from the peak, but we had a tantalising view of the glaciers and rockfaces that embellish the mountain.

Next day was The Big One, and half the group were in a tizzy over breakfast (pancakes!!) about the big ascent to the 4750m pass. When they said we'd be walking 4 hrs uphill I expected, y'know, to be going uphill for four hours in the style of the Michalskys (UPHILL) but we barely even got to panting which is probably just as well considering we're not in shape. The clouds stayed to keep us company (more neblina) and the rain was pretty incessant all day so we were robbed of what I'm assured is an absolutely stunning view of Salkantay itself. It did feel a bit like going to an art gallery to look at blank canvases, but the walk was immensely enjoyable nonetheless and I got my endorfin rush at the pass from where the myriad glaciers climb up into the clouds. It's proper rocky and alpine, in contrast to the steep but velvety slopes of the morning, and while we held a small ceremony to Pachamama, the Quechuan mother earth, the snow started to fall so we were all grateful for the shot of whisky :)) 

The 2000m descent took us from the snow through rolling green valleys until the trees got taller and the greens darker. Following this one path we walked into the jungle, as the open valleys began to close in and droop over us while the air got heavy with humidity. So many different landscapes in such a short time! Our campsite was surrounded by so many rich flowers it felt like a completely different country to the one we started the morning in.

Day three the clouds finally fucked off to reveal the deep tropical valley we trekked through all morning, with rushing rapids and burning sunlight and NO MORE RAIN PONCHOS. Yes we have given in to looking like backstreet gandalfs in our ponchos and walking sticks, but therefore at least half my clothes weren't yet moist. After lunch we had a stretching session which just devolved into laughter at trying to get Betto the Texan to bend over with his arms clasped behind his back - he was just too wide! - and then were treated to a drive to Santa Teresa which felt quite perverse after walking so much. Didn't care though because we were DESPERATE to get moving and get to the hot baths because thermal baths are our absolute favourite thing because all we want to do is swimmm and also be warm and we've been to so many Baños Termales but never enough.

My patience was sorely tested but finally made it to Cocalmayo Baths, skipped group briefing and crept round the back to get straight in the water. GOD it was nice!!!!!! Huge warm stone pools with clear water and best of all, ice cold showers! And a mountain view to boot! It was fun just messing about with all the others, and G and I would've stayed in there forever had the promise of a party not eventually dragged us out the water. Yeah so we had a party with all the groups after dinner at the campsite, and let's just say this: tequila shots cost 1 sol. That's 25p. For an entire shot of alcohol. Suffice to say we didn't give a toss how bad the music was (it was Bad) because every single person proceeded to get absolutely hammered, unsurprising after all the walking and soaking in 40° water and dehydration.




Next morning was interesting as everybody was somewhere on the spectrum between massively hungover and still drunk, including G who did nothing but stroke a puppy for the first hour of the morning. It . Most people went off to do ziplining (brave, I know) so a handful of us set out in the burning sunshine on foot to Hidroelectrica through gorgeous green valleys. The walk definitely helped the hangovers as it was the most beautiful stretch of path so far, but was glad to get to the lunch spot and collapse in a hammock. Only then did we realise a Brazilian dude who walked with us had disappeared after he walked on ahead, with no water or reception and speaking no Spanish or English. This was then worsened by the discovery his girlfriend had broken up with him the previous night, so the Paranoia Spiral began knowing I'd somehow lost a recently dumped manchild in the middle of the Andes. Shit.

This slightly marred the afternoon walk to Aguas Calientes that took us deep into the rainforest along train tracks. Here, surrounded by misty peaks and engulfed in jungle, I finally began to understand the mystic, the hype surrounding Machu Picchu. The whole area is guarded by huge sentinels of mountains, dug into the thick jungle and only accessible by train (no roads). I'd assumed that since the site has it's own lil town it would be less deep in the thickets, but god all I could think was how (and why) the fuck the Incas built here?! Aguas Calientes itself is bizarre as well, tall and paved and flashing like a Christmas tree so you feel you've stumbled on a mid-jungle casino town. The best bit about it though was we were walking up to our hostel and suddenly, there's Jonas the Brazilian, all happy and chilling as if nothing on earth could be wrong! I was so relieved to see him I practically flew into his arms, and then proceeded to be pretty pissed at him.

Enjoyed our last night with our group and guide, being entertained with scandalous stories from the previous night - felt like school gossip - especially since Ewelina had been perfectly sober and could recall everyone's sins in painful detail. But best thing was the scalding shower :) then had to rise bright and early (in pitch blackness) to begin the tough climb up to Machu Picchu which is an hour of JUST STAIRS, and we were walking really fast. Yeah all those stairs were probs the hardest bit of the trek, but were glad to make it up there nice n early before the crowds (and xlouds) begin to flood the site. Once again we were blessed with neblina, like a pale shawl over the ruins and surrounding mountains, but we got our token postcard photo before the clouds closed in completely and felt sorry (or gleefully gayley happy in G's case) for anyone who arrived after....

Yeah so Machu Picchu is pretty cool, I'll admit it, it's big and intact and draped over the top of a mountain with stunning views across the misty tropical peaks. There are so many theories and suggestions as to it's purpose but nobody truuuuly knows, so it's just fun to traipse through the ancient walls and cobbled streets with an open mind. It's also far from the best example of incan building technique - allegedly built in only 50 years, it's crude compared to structures remaining in cusco and Cajamarca. But the location and the neblina did lend it a certain mystic, making us wish we had so much longer to explore it's mazes and caress its stones.

Then again the rain was pretty heavy, and every time we got our sketchbooks out the sky decided to have a pool party. Furthermore, my absolute favourite view was not the classic postcard, or the chinese-esque cloud forest mountains, but looking back up the terraces from lower in the site to see THOUSANDS upon THOUSANDS of rows and clumps of tourists all decked in a rainbow of rain ponchos. It looked like a never-ending string of candy, a psychedelic anaconda snaking down over the 600 year old ruins. Class.

So yes, we can now say we have officially been to Peru, because apparently Machu Picchu is the only noteworthy thing in this whole damn country. Glad we went for sure, but it was the trek that made it, the people we met along the way, so the biggest takeaway was the empty feeling after it was all over. If anything, that shows we had a good time!

Your officially Peruvian tourists,

M + G

