Hola chicos, the adventures of Gemma and Mereida continue, this time in true Traveller fashion as we begin city-hopping in earnest.

Last day in la paz was spent clambering around the mud spires of the Valle de la Luna and squeaking with delight in the Alasitas Festival, a market dedicated to selling tiny weeny versions of things you could want for yourself in the New Year. Want a car? Buy a mini car. Therefore we bought tiny bricks and sacks of rice because in 2020 we wish to be inundated with bricks and rice, apparently. (They were just too cute!)

From la paz it was back over the border to Puno, though not before a quick sojourn in Copacabana. We've had the manilow song looping round our skulls for months so were super excited to visit Copacabana, only to discover the song is in reference to the Copacabana in Rio, not the (pretty, but rather less cool) one on the shores of Lake Titicaca :(. No matter, we sung the song full volume anyway for a lovely ice cold swim which was actually pretty difficult considering the 3800m altitude. G and I both pride ourselves in our ability to swim in ANY water - a combination of being raised on English seas and that convenient layer of accumulated fat we call our Peruvian Padding. But swimming so high up does just again make it harder as all the oxygen made an exodus out of my body and then I had to run out of the lake because a horse was eating our mango. Put of a plastic bag an everything, the thief! The mango we bought for 1 boliviano (about 11p) so we were mightily pissed.

From here we crossed back into Peru, which involved restraining G (or egging her on) from slapping a border official, and on to Puno on the northeast coast of Lake titicaca. A supremely ugly town, it was nevertheless a homecoming to be back in Peru, felt like a warm hug even if it was a new city. From here we could visit the Incan and pre-incan chullpas, or enormous funerary towers where royals and other VIPs were buried. Initially wasn't overenthused to see them but the site at Sillustani is featured on the special series of 1 sol coins so i don't think J would've allowed us back into the house in lima without visiting it (yes this is the man who went all the way to Huaraz, trekking capital of the country where you pretty much only go for hiking, to see one rock. because it was on a coin. Not even the original rock. It was a cool rock with a cool story, but still. Coins.)

Had a tour for Sillustani in the afternoon, and we do enjoy getting tourist tours because its so EASY but it was a breath of fresh air to DIY it on public transport to another site of chullpas, Cutimbo. After cursing the lung-pummeling climb up onto a table top mountain we were greeted with the views across the high plain and had to concede it wasn't a half bad place to be buried. These towers are ridiculously enormous, 8 to 12 m looming like ancient grain silos containing something rather less pleasant than grain. Sadly they've all been raided and emptied long ago so no mummies or intact skeletons to see, but impressive in their scale nonetheless.

(The site is also accompanied by what has to be the shittest museum in Peru, no questions there, it has about as much claim to being a museum as a pushbike does to being a Harley davidson)

Next day we boated onto the lake to visit the floating reed islands of the Uros people, who hundreds of years ago got sick of the bickering on land and ran away to live on the water. Respect, I mean who's up for building a floating community off the coast of Britain????? Their whole lives revolve around these totora reeds, living on and in them, eating them, building houses and boats and crafts out of the stuff. It feels like walking on a trampoline, the spongy texture a result of constantly refreshing the island with fresh reeds while they rot from below.

Afterwards it was on to Taquile (not Tequila thank god, we still haven't recovered from 1 sol shots on the trek), an almost Mediterranean island in the middle of the lake where you could not tell that the water had any end, you could be looking over the English channel with that distance. Again inhabited by an ancient culture, where the women spin wool and the men sit around in gorgeous suits all day knitting the finest most intricate wares. Island was pretty and all but Oh My Lord was the weaving and knitwear incredible. Got a bit obsessed and had to invest in traditional belts (worn by men, but whatever) to add to our ever-growing pile of clothes amassed in South america.

Yes we finally got our beach time, a few hundred kilometres from the actual coastline!

Next time we continue north to see condors....

Byeeee!

M + G
