Arequipa!

Yes we made it to the white city, though in rather less comfort than previous night buses since we ended up spending the night on the floor of the bus station because the seats all sloped downwards too much to lie on. The night buses have thus far been criminally comfortable, so that we've developed a Pavlovian response to the reclining chairs that we immediately conk out and can pretty much sleep through. Day buses are far less fun, cabin fever driving us up the wall as the bus drove us over the plains only made better by the chicharron ladies on the bus. Chicharron just means 'fried', fried what doesn't really matter, because god does it taste good.

Arequipa was a beautiful surprise, warm and sunny and metropolitan giving us the excuse to strip upon arrival and spend the day basking in the sun like Brits in Portugal instead of holed up inside a museum. From here did a two day trek into the colca canyon, second deepest canyon in the world (the deepest one is another 12 hrs away by coach - maybe next time) and twice the depth of the grand canyon. It's upper slopes are shallower and terraced like marbling, an immense knitted quilt of greens erupting out of the crevice. The lower canyon is more rugged, with walls of rock rising 4000m at its deepest where the clouds get trapped far below. Here we embarked, spending the first day walking down into the canyon, a complete inversion of everything I, a mountain climber, know to be true. Walk down first, then up??? Felt completely unearned to skip down the mountainside without having put in the work to climb first; it would have felt like a cheat code or flying eagle rescue were it not for the lingering knowledge we'd have to climb it all back up tomorrow morning.....

Slept in a village right at the bottom of the canyon which just gives the impression of being in a deep valley when you're inside - couldn't quite wrap our heads around the concept that the landscape just carries on flat when you get to the top of the canyon instead of going back down on the other side, until you reach the top of the steep climb and realise the canyon is low instead of the mountains being high. Can't explain properly, but it's odd!

The clouds stacked themselves like cotton candy in the canyon the next morning somewhat obscuring our view as we hiked up (clouds! What a lovely change in scenery) but we did catch sight of a few condors, one flying close just to flaunt its ridiculous wingspan. The largest flying bird in the world, only about 40 remain in the wild .

Back in Arequipa, we decided to go out (2nd feb - yes i know a bit behind with the emails) for my birthday because tomorrow was for the night bus and we wanted to loosen the shoelaces a little. Our hostel had a rooftop bar with a wonderful view over the city that nobody was looking at because the super bowl was on, but met some nice germans who weren't hypnotized by the (frankly incredible) amount of arse on the TV. We're honestly confused how there's any humans left in Germany because Every Single Person we've met travelling has been german, but we've got absolutely no problem with it except they're also all engineers. Also I've probably spoken more German than Spanish here...

Had a great night letting loose, especially after we got latched onto a group of locals to bang rum shots on the street corner, yes very classy, and then it was on to the club where it was proven once and for all that we've been in this country far too long because we actively enjoyed the music. Since the beginning we've drawn a hard line at enjoying reggaeton, a genre of music that's far less fun than it sounds, dedicated to taking the worst of club and electronic music and giving it a thorough spin in the latin washing machine. Plus I'm pretty sure there's a contest for who can repeat the same lines the most times during one song. Its awful, and awfully popular, but awful music that's popular usually still has a beat, so yes we have finally been peruvianised and can not only dance to, but enjoy, reggaeton! Que pena.

So yes dancing was good with a lil help from our friend Ron, therefore the next day was spent in a state of disrepair and rampant spending which is totally ok because you only turn 20 once but also not ok because the last two weeks have been "ahh it's M's birthday let's treat ourselves" and the amount of money spent on food and taxis has increased exponentially. We nursed the hangovers with KFC (v fancy birthday meal I know) that tasted much better than it was allowed to, and a visit to Santa Catalina the sprawling citadelic 17th century monastery in the colonial centre. At first it felt rather blasphemous wandering round this grand important religious centre with a headache like a woodpecker and the faint whiff of alcohol trailing behind us, but I'll say this now: big old quiet dark buildings adorned with paintings of dead nuns* where they play you choral music are really remarkably pleasant after a night of doing shots on the street like teenagers (one of which I officially no longer am). The monastery is so big it has it's own pattern of streets to get lost in so it served as an excellent escape from the bustle of central arequipa.

From here we night bussed it to nazca, final stop before lima, where the wall of heat hit us like a drunk taxi driving onto the pavement (depressingly common in Peru). The main attraction here are the nazca lines, immense geoglyphs carved into the desert around 2000 years ago by the nazca civilisation. They're suuuper cool, creatures like monkeys and birds and and astronaut (?), but seeing them properly requires getting into what is essentially a toy plane. Thought nothing of it, couldn't wait to clamber into the 6-seater to get up high and see the lines, but it started to go a little bit south when the pilot banked around the first figure so you could see the line from the other side of the plane. Hhmmmmmmmm.

I think it's sufficient to say there are about 15 shapes on the route, which amounts to an organ-loosening amount of swerving and banking until I was just a sack of skin vaguely holding in Intestine Smoothie (the latest health food trend). I get motion sickness pretty easily so I should've seen it coming, but it was a surprise to turn round and see Gemma in the same state of liquidness.

We stumbled out of the plane like newborn giraffes and couldn't function as human beans for the next few hours so instead of doing more tourist stuff we treated ourselves to a pool for the rest of the day :))) An early night refastened our innards so we set off for chauchilla, an open cemetery from the nazca civilisation who were the only pre-colombians to mummify their entire population. They also beheaded them, and left them with their kilometre long dreadlocks which with their headbands gave the impression of walking around in a Gary Larson cartoon about hippie headhunters.

From here it was finally back to lima, which we were really looking forward to after spending so long away and on the move and with ridiculously heavy backpacks. It did feel weird visiting so much in so little time after having the luxury of time in iquitos and cusco but we get why other travellers do everything so quickly and jam-packed - it's thrilling to be experiencing so much so rapidly, so many changes of landscape and culture.

But happy to return to lima! Missed you.

Byeeeeee!

Mereida



* this is weirder than it sounds, the nuns weren't allowed to be painted while they were living so painters had 24hrs after their deaths to immortalise them on canvas, often in their coffin garb and looking, well, pale as death.

