Just had the exciting news that we're shooting off to Huaraz tonight (!) because apparently one conversation constitutes making firm plans here, which I am totally ok with because WE ARE SO EXCITED FOR THE MOUNTAINS! But this means we gotta update you on our stay in Trujillo, which is a very pretty desert town if you're into centuries of colonial oppression expressing themselves through architecture (we were into it).

There are so many archaeological sites in the area that we decided to Be Tourists and take a guided tour, which turned out in our favour as our guide spoke very clear, gesticulsted Spanish so that G and I actually understood far more than we expected to and could really make the most of it.

First we visited some Huacas (temples) of adobe (mud brick, or Adobe Templebuilder TM) which is pretty astounding as to how they constructed such big solid walls out of just mud, particularly since most of the walls have been so eroded by weather since excavation that they just look like sandy lumps of melted cheesecake. Built by the Chimú, this pre-incan coastal civilisation is best known for constructing Chan Chan, the world's largest adobe city and a simply enormous archaeological site, our next stop. Again, its mostly just a lot of sand (in the vague shape of walls) but impressive in its scope. Annoyingly they only show you around a teeny tiny portion, partially restored and unrepresentative of the site as a whole, though this was later rectified ...

After lunch there was horse dancing (marinera) with riders whose wide-brimmed hats certainly did their scary hairlines a favour, and then it was time for the crown jewel of Trujillo's archaeological history: the Huacas del Sol y de la Luna. Nestled under a mountain and only partly excavated, this complex was constructed by the Moche people some 600 years before Chan Chan and features remarkably well preserved murals and sacrificial rocks they'd chuck you down after slitting your throat. Can really visualise the red blood trickling down the grey rocks........ in seriousness though the colours are still so vibrant and there's an entire immense fucking wall of relief murals and so much colour and texture it's practically psychedelic in comparison to Chan Chan,  and that's only the Huaca de la Luna. Fucking loved it but spent most of the time frustrated that they haven't even begun to excavate Huaca del Sol because it's so expensive but we would 100% do that shit for free and it's been being excavated since 1983 and it's being reburied by the desert in the time it takes them to unbury it and it's frustrating that this place had barely any visitors and everyone just goes to Chan Chan which is a big pile of sand or Macchu picchu which is overrun as hell and even my guidebook barely highlights this sight when more visitors would mean more money to dig more!!!!!!! Grrrrrrrrrrrr!!!!

J decided to abandon us early to return to lima for all the parties he was missing, so we had a nice relaxed final day with him walking around the cemetery (refreshingly full of visitors and ice cream stands) (Brockley Cem take note) and at the beach in Huanchaco. Sea was too damn shallow to swim and fortified by sea urchins (which we only realised about 24m out into the sea so we held hands and screamed our way back to shore), but we were just so glad to have Proper Sunshine for the first time that we napped and promptly contracted MONSTER SUNBURNS. Correction: M and J fell asleep and G lay there sizzling like frickin bacon (which she misses severely) because she was unable to awaken the sleeping dolts (-G). It was true horror. G and I have always prided ourselves in our brown tannable skin so we were shocked and mortified (Dad woke up black). Sun, we bow down to your strength and majesty (our skin is still peeling now. We look like leopards :) but all the tan is peeling off :( :( :( :((((((((( and Gemma is literally cracking)

Bags were a pain to carry on our poor lil shoulders afterwards, but managed to have a lovely few days alone in Trujillo, walking around trying to escape the sun in markets and churches and the botanical garden. Also, buses! I now feel a bit more like a local because we can Get The Bus. No small feat. After checking out another cemetery, that felt more like Hilly Fields in a heatwave with the amount of people and screaming children running around, we walked down the big road and into Chan Chan - not the tourist centre but into the site, the ancient city.

The concept of fences apparently not having reached northern Peru, there is a joy and a sadness to something as monumental and historic as this being left to the whims of both man and nature. The innocent joy of children playing on the slopes of 700 year old temples was tempered by the melancholic crumble of sand beneath my hand each time I touched something, of the stacks of rubbish dumped by locals, of the undulating walls like sandcastles caught in a retreating wave. And there was a selfish thrill to exploring the place alone, walking into the unknown depths of history, two Indiana joneses in our own little kingdom of sand.

We did have a perpetual feeling of unease while exploring Chan Chan, not aided by the eerie quiet thanks to the soundproofing of the walls (some of which did still reach up about 4m) and the all-permeating sandiness in which anyone not clothed in their grandmother's carpets would stand out. There was a thrill to the danger though, and we felt better getting up high, climbing a massive hill of sand that may or may not be another unexcavated temple (they really need to get back on their digging). Looking out over the city, we saw the true vastness. It's so fricking immense. An entire day of trudging and looking and we'd barely covered a tenth of the site!

We really did feel like explorers of a new (old) realm, spotting ground owls and a huge dead dog, its skin mummified by the dry heat and death in its eyeholes. Some aggressive bashing on G's part later, and we'd liberated a few teeth from it's maggot-filled jaw. True adventure. However, we were glad to get out of the complex as sunlight was replaced with more feelings of unease, and though we only encountered a few people throughout the day we were relieved to be back on the road. Also because the sunburn was burning, and for lack of moisturiser we retreated to the hostel bathrooms and lathered ourselves in smushed banana like walking smoothies. We tasted goooood.

It was certainly nice being back in lima and reunited with moisturiser...

M+G
